* I put 20.8L (originally it was 21.83L, but I did a mistake and put only 20.8L) in the kettle, but by 2 litters, so the exact volume might be a bit different
* I took 0.27kg CaraRed instead of 0.23
* I should have started boiling right from the beginning and with the lid. (need to modify the checklist)
* It's possible that the wheat wasn't crushed finely enough (attached picture)
* I was suspicious on whether I crushed finely enough the malt (pale ale + carared), but checking back in the books, it seems it was okay (image attached)
* The original checklist seemed pretty good, but since it was my first time brewing I decided to sanitize right at the beginning, which made me loose a lot of time (+ the fact that I started the kettle with water only once I sanitized and weighted the grains)
* TODO Need to figure out an efficient way to sanitize (less time and water)
* TODO There was resudue oxi at the bottom of ucket. I'm not sure I did it right, I need to check further
* TODO Put my used checklist
* I didn't sterilize the stir paddle (only cleaned), but I didn't used it for the last 10 minutes of boiling.
* I did sterilize:
    * Aerotion rock
    * Kettle + bucket drain
* Strike water was a 69/70C, but it seems that I needed to stir, because once the grain was in, I read 71/72C. So, next time get a better reading before. Then I stirred a lot to make sure it had homogenous temperature.
* I closed the kettle (electric) to let cool down at 67.
* Since it was 30 outside, maybe it was a bad idea to strike at 69/70C. However, this high temperature might have allowed to lower down the ABV, which might be a good thing for making it "sessionable" (TODO: put ref)
* PreBoil gravity was at 1.030, but I couldn't mesure how much liquid I had, my kettle wasn't allowing it (Next time to mesure volume, I should use a ruler. This will allow me to better understand where I lost so much volume)
* When I read that I had PreBoil OG of 1.030, I kind of panicked and tried to figure out if I needed to add LME (which I had). (TODO Get the website for ref)
* Next time to get the kettle boiling I might put the lid just to bring to a boil, and then remove.
* I ended up with 10L (when the wort reached the drain), and then I made sure to get everything, which gave me an additional 2L, for a total of 12L in the fermenter.
* OG was 1.050, but I read at 27C, so I used "[Hydrometer Temperature Adjustment](https://www.brewersfriend.com/hydrometer-temp/)", which gave me 1.051, which is was I was expecting.
* FG is 1.021 so it gives us 4% ABV
* In the bottling bucket I ended up with 9.5L, and I left a bit of sediment, so I suspect that 8.5L/9L ended up in the bottles


Future Notes
------------

* For next time look at [Mash Infusion, Strike Water, and Rest Schedule Calculator](https://www.brewersfriend.com/mash/)
