Recipe
======

* Title: What Does Belgian Malt Taste Like?
* Actual [recipe](https://www.brewersfriend.com/homebrew/recipe/view/557097/what-does-belgian-malt-taste-like-)
* Original [recipe](https://byo.com/bock/item/1983-northern-english-br)
* Brew Method: BIAB
* Style Name: Northern English Brown
* Boil Time: 60 min
* Batch Size: 18 liters (fermentor volume)
* Boil Size: 25 liters
* Boil Gravity: 1.036
* Efficiency: 59% (brew house)

Stats
-----

* Original Gravity: 1.050
* Final Gravity: 1.013
* ABV (standard): 4.92%
* IBU (tinseth): 27.56
* SRM (morey): 14.58

Fermentables
------------

* 4 kg - Belgian - Pale Ale (81.6%)
* 0.3 kg - Belgian - Cara 20L (6.1%)
* 0.25 kg - Belgian - Special B (5.1%)
* 0.2 kg - Belgian - Biscuit (4.1%)
* 0.15 kg - Belgian - Cara 45L (3.1%)

Hops
----

* 18 g - Goldings, Type: Pellet, AA: 7.5, Use: Boil for 60 min, IBU: 21.58
* 25 g - Goldings, Type: Pellet, AA: 7.5, Use: Boil for 5 min, IBU: 5.98

Yeast
-----

* Fermentis / Safale - English Ale Yeast S-04
* Starter?

2017/10/28 - Brewing
====================

* Started the whole thing around 19h.
* Strike water volume and temp: 12.25 Litres at 75.7C (approx)
* Mash temperature goal: 67C
* Preboil gravity reading: 1.030
* I aerated the wort with the aeration stone 15 minutes before transfering the wort into fermenter.
* For volume estimation, I considered that 24 Liters was at 24cm from the bottom of the kettle (when putting the ruler on the side of the kettle).
* Temp of the mash was around 68.5C
* Started boil of 11L of sparging water 30 minutes before Mash out. It took 20 minutes to boil.
* Batch sparged with water at 75C. 
* Ended up with approx 26L of wort (25cm, need to verify)
* Started boil effort at 21h30.
* Wort was at 97C at 22h10, added the hop then.
* FG: 1.050, giving 59% brewhouse efficiency (fermentor), with 18L of wort ending up in the fermentor

2017/11/02 - Maturation Phase
=============================

* (7h00 am): Moved the fermentor into the appartment for maturation phase (fermenter was at 15.4). Appartment temperature around 19/20C.


2017/11/25 - Bottling
======================

* 99 grams of sugar (calculated 16.5 liters of wort. I had 18 liters and I considered that I was losing 2 liters of trub but adding 500ml of watery sugar), however I ended up with 17 liters total. This means that the trub was about 1.5L
* I transfered the wort into the other fermentor by pouring (I didn't use the spigot). 

