[Alpine Black House (Modern Times' Black House with European Malts)](https://www.brewersfriend.com/homebrew/recipe/view/584592/alpine-black-house-modern-times-black-house-european-malts)
================


* Original Author: The Mad Fermentationist
* Brew Method: BIAB
* Style Name: Oatmeal Stout
* Boil Time: 60 min
* Batch Size: 11.5 liters (fermentor volume)
* Boil Size: 15.5 liters
* Boil Gravity: 1.033
* Efficiency: 75% (brew house)


Stats
-----

* Original Gravity: 1.051
* Final Gravity: 1.013
* ABV (standard): 4.98%
* IBU (tinseth): 27.69
* SRM (morey): 35.89

Fermentables
------------

* 1.6 kg - Belgian - Pale Ale (61.3%)
* 0.5 kg - Rolled Oats (19.2%)
* 0.078 kg - Belgian - Roasted Barley (3%)
* 0.25 kg - German - Carafa I (9.6%)
* 0.1 kg - Belgian - Cara 45L (Brewferm's Cara 120 EBC) (3.8%)
* 0.08 kg - German - CaraRed (3.1%)

Hops
----

* 15 g - Goldings, Type: Pellet, AA: 7.5, Use: Boil for 60 min, IBU: 37.01

Mash Guidelines
---------------

* Infusion, Strike Temp: 69 C, Mash Temp: 68 C, Time: 60 min
* 25 g - Coffee Beans (course ground), Type: Flavor, Use: Secondary, last 24 hours
* Fermentis / Safale - English Ale Yeast S-04

System Parameters
-----------------

Original Numbers used for BIAB in preparation of brewing^[From http://www.biabcalculator.com/]^[Note that those numbers need to be reviewed accordingly to the mesurements I took on 2018/01/27].

* Recipe Parameters
    * Grain Bill: 2.58 kg
    * Grain Temp: 19 Celsius
    * Batch Size (Fermentor): 9 Liters
    * Mash Temp: 68 Celsius
    * Boil Time: 60 Minutes
* System Variables
    * Kettle Size: 28 Liters
    * Trub: 0.9475 Liters
    * Boiloff Rate: 4.7375 Liters/Hour
    * Grain Absorption (squeezing): 0.31 Liters/Kilograms of grain
* Output
    * Total Water Needed: 15.48 Liters
    * Strike Water Temp: 69 Celsius
    * Total Mash Volume: 17.21 Liters
    * Preboil Wort: 14.69 Liters
    * Postboil Wort: 9.95 Liters
    * Into Fermenter: 9.00 Liters

Notes
-----

* I brew in the evening (since I have kids and brewing while they are awake is just impossible), however I did prepare some stuff during the day when they were asleep:
    * I milled all the grains and then put them directly in the brewing bag which in turn was in a spare kettle. However, when I put the bag in the kettle with all the liquid, there was doughballs. Next time I'll follow the advice I saw on the internet and try to incorporate the grains gradually. This means next time, I'll put the grains directly into the spare kettle instead of within the bag. Note that the crush is fine, but it's not yet flour.
    * I did toast the oatmeal. I have to check about the oatmeal I used. It was big flakes, which I might not get as much silkyness from than smaller, more processed oatmeal. Also, I toasted them at 180 C on a metal plate with baker sheets underneath, turning them every 15 minutes. I didn't like the smell of it which was pretty strong, but we'll see how it impacted the taste of the beer.
* I didn't do a mash out, but I still managed to get a 75% efficiency. So, I suppose I won't bother at all doing a mashout. 
* During the day I prepared the kettle with all the required (hotish) water.
* 18h15: Started to warm the water (33.5 C) at 18h15.
* 18h45: The water was at strike temp at 69/70/71 C. The wide difference in them might be because I took them of the bottom of the kettle which was hot.
* 18h53: After 8 minutes of mashing the temp was at 68.
    * I did stir the mash, but I think it was a mistake because temp lowered down a lot (2 C). Note that I use a winter coat to isolate the kettle. Stirring just allowed the heat to dissipate. Next time, just leave it alone.
* 19h50: As soon as the mash was completed (temp was then 63.3), I got the bag out and put it in the spare kettle. I started to heat the main kettle. I then started to squeeze the bag. When I considered I got as much as I could without breaking the bag, I poured it in the main kettle.
* Preboil volume: 14.25L (in fact mesured wort depth: 15.9cm), which means I lost 1.25L of wort for 2.61kg. So grain absorption (when squeezing but not totally like a crazy person) is  = 0.48 Liters/Kilograms of grain
* Preboil gravity: 1.029.
* Preboil ph: 5.5?
* I poured all the liquid in the fermenter, which ended up being 11.5L. This means that for 60 minutes of boiling, I lost 2.75L. So, boiloff rate: 2.75 Liters per Hour.
* 20h20: Wort was boiling, added the hop.
* 21h25: Put the main kettle outside (it was 5C outside) with its sanitized lid.
* 21h55: Transfered the wort into the fermenter, to let it cool outside
     * Took original gravity, but the wort was too hot, had to wait for morning to let it cool and have a proper reading (was showing 1.030, meaning no change. But it was 1.051 when cooled down). This means I should wait for the sample to cool down before taking the actual reading, or note both (while hot and while at room temp)
* 22h05: finished cleaning
* During the night I put the fermenter inside (don't know when it was, since I was half asleep).
* At 9h30 on the next morning I managed to put the yeast in the fermenter. House temp: 21C.
* Fermentor's ph: 5.5?

Bottling Notes (2018/02/10)
--------------

* For priming calculation, max temp 21C, target carbonation 2.5, 6g per liter. Had 12 liters in the fermentor, so estimated 10.5 liters would be left + 500 ml for priming solution = 11 liters. 6g * 11L = 66g of sugar.
* Final gravity 1.016, this is high. I suspect that the mash temperature was really too high which lead to the sugars not being all processed.
