[MacGyver's Island (Modern Times' Fortunate Island)](https://www.brewersfriend.com/homebrew/recipe/view/514761/macgyver-s-island-fortunate-island-)
======

* Original Author: [Michael Tonsmeire](https://www.themadfermentationist.com/2012/11/hoppy-wheat-with-march-pump-hoprocket.html)
* Brew Method: BIAB
* Style Name: American Wheat Beer
* Boil Time: 90 min
* Batch Size: 16 liters (fermentor volume)
* Boil Size: 24 liters
* Boil Gravity: 1.034
* Efficiency: 55% (brew house)

Stats
-----

* Original Gravity: 1.051
* Final Gravity: 1.010
* ABV (standard): 5.45%
* IBU (tinseth): 55.84
* SRM (morey): 7.01

Fermentables
------------

* 2600 g - Belgian - Wheat (54.9%)
* 1800 g - Belgian - Pale Ale (38%)
* 340 g - Belgian - Cara 20L (7.2%)

Hops
----

* 20 g - Columbus, Type: Pellet, AA: 15, Use: Boil for 65 min, IBU: 55.84
* 28.3 g - Amarillo, Type: Pellet, AA: 8.6, Use: Whirlpool for 0 min
* 56.7 g - Mosaic, Type: Pellet, AA: 12.5, Use: Whirlpool for 0 min
* 21.3 g - Amarillo, Type: Pellet, AA: 8.6, Use: Whirlpool for 30 min at -15 min
* 42.5 g - Mosaic, Type: Pellet, AA: 12.5, Use: Whirlpool for 30 min at -15 min
* 28.3 g - Amarillo, Type: Pellet, AA: 8.6, Use: Dry Hop for 4 days
* 85 g - Mosaic, Type: Pellet, AA: 12.5, Use: Dry Hop for 4 days

Yeast
-----

* Fermentis / Safale - American Ale Yeast US-05
* Starter: No, Didn't rehydrate pack

2017/09/13 - Brewing
====================

* Used Yeast: Fermentis / Safale - American Ale Yeast US-05
* Strike water volume 11.85L, at 75.5C (calculated with [Brewersfriend.com calculator](https://www.brewersfriend.com/mash/), with ) 
* Mash temperature got down to 64C, I had to add boiling water to get back to 68C
* I rinsed the gains to get up to 24L of wort (calculated with liquid height in kettle: 24.5 cm). Note that I rinsed with boiling water, so it might cause [astringency](http://beersmith.com/blog/2015/10/25/astringency-from-grains-oversparging-and-hot-sparging-your-beer/).^[From tasting notes, it seems it did]
* Preboil gravity was 1.032, estimated OG was 1.0432 if boiled 60 minutes. 
* Duration of the boil was 90 minutes (Since estimated OG was low, I decided to boil longer to concentrate it a bit)
* A followed the recipe for hop addition. So late hop was added at flameout, waited 15 minutes, then added the cooler and the second hop addition.
* Amarillo hop was cones, and for the zero minute hop addition, I inadvertently added it without being in a hop bag, -15 minutes addition was in a hop bag. Because of the cones, I couldn't transfer the kettle content through the tap. I simply transfered it by pouring it.
* I left a bit of wort in the kettle because too much hop cones were about to get dragged with it.
* I ended up with 16L of wort in the fermentor
* I tried to rehydrate the yeast (two packets), as mentioned in John Palmer's book, but I did it too soon and in a small container. I ended up throwing it away, and I just sprinkled a single pack of yeast on top of the wort, as the manifacturer says.
* OG is 1.052, Estimated ABV: 5.56%
* Efficiency estimated at 55% by brewersfriend.com 
* In the checklist, I was missing instructions for preparing the lauter tun and the yeast (which is fixed now)

DryHopping
==========

* 2017/09/24 - Removed dryhop (don't remember when I added it, surely about 4 days before)
* Need more info on dry hopping. I think next brew shouldn't have dry hopping.
* DONE In the checklist add the following instruction:
   * Add wort chiller in the kettle 15 minutes before end.

Bottling (2017-10-04)
=====================

* Home is at 440 meters above sea level
* target carbonation volume: 2.7-3.3
* (from table 10.2); For 21C residual volume = 0.8, target 3.0 = 7.7 grams of sugars per L
* Had 15.5 liters, ended up with 16 * 750 ml bottles
* Had a lot of trub, might need to do a second fermentation? Some Might have ended up in bottles
* FG: 10.010 
* My tubing is probably too big, when racking there was a lot of bubbles.
* When sanitizing, I really got the impression that I have too much undissolved product left. some were left on the bottle caps. I generally uncomfortable with that step. Might need advises from someone else.
* I put 99 grams of white sugar (51g) + some cane sugar (48g). I determined that max temp for wort was 18 degrees.
* It took 2 hours.

Tasting (2017-10-20)
====================

* Good nose (better than the previous mosaic session IPA)
* Yeast bite or very long bitterness, probably needs a bit more time. Let's give it two more weeks.

Tasting (2017-11-03)
====================

* There's a very long bitterness (like several minutes) that isn't as enjoyable as I would expect from hop bitterness. It might be because it's not ready yet, but I suspect that it's due to tannins extraction, which is due to the boiling water I use for sparging. 
* There's a nice head, but beer itself isn't carbonated a lot and it quickly goes flat.
