Modern Times Fortunate Island
================

Recipe
======

-   Method: BIAB
-   Style: American Wheat Beer
-   Batch Size: 9 Liters (fermentor volume)
-   Boil Gravity: TODO (recipe based estimate)
-   Efficiency: 75% (brew house)
-   Source: Modern Times
-   Original Gravity: 1.048
-   Final Gravity: 1.009
-   ABV (standard): 5.21%
-   IBU (tinseth): 45.48
-   SRM (morey): 5.48

Fermentables
============

| Name               |  Amount|  Yield|  Lovibond| Bill % |
|:-------------------|-------:|------:|---------:|:-------|
| Belgian - Wheat    |    1.00|  82.61|       1.8| 54.1   |
| Belgian - Pale Ale |    0.70|  82.61|       3.4| 37.8   |
| German - CaraRed   |    0.15|  73.91|      20.0| 8.1    |

Hops
====

| Amount | Variety    | Type   |    AA| Use     | Time    |
|:-------|:-----------|:-------|-----:|:--------|:--------|
| 8g     | Columbus   | Pellet |  17.2| Boil    | 60 mins |
| 25g    | Cascade    | Pellet |   6.2| Aroma   | 10 mins |
| 25g    | Centennial | Pellet |  10.3| Aroma   | 10 mins |
| 25g    | Cascade    | Pellet |   6.2| Dry Hop | 3 days  |
| 25g    | Centennial | Pellet |  10.3| Dry Hop | 3 days  |

BIAB Calculator
===============

Since I use BIAB (Brew in a Bag) method, here's the calculations taken from [BIAB Calculator](http://www.biabcalculator.com/)

Recipe Parameter
----------------

-   Grain Bill: 1.85 Kilograms
-   Grain Temp: 20 Celsius
-   Batch Size: 9 Liters
-   Mash Temp: 67 Celsius
-   Boil Time: 105 Minutes

System Variables
----------------

-   Kettle Size: Liters
-   Trub: 1.5 Liters
-   Boiloff Rate: 2.75 Liters/Houree
-   Grain Absorption: 0.48 Liters/Kilograms of grain

Recipe Output
-------------

-   Total Water Needed: 16.2 Liters
-   Strike Water Temp: 67.6 Celsius
-   Total Mash Volume: 17.43 Liters
-   Preboil Wort: 15.31 Liters
-   Postboil Wort: 10.5 Liters
-   Into Fermenter: 9 Liters

Notes
=====

-   Volume: 16.2, depth: 18.4cm
-   (17h30) Stated the kettle (temp 35C)
-   (18h00) Water ready at 68C (after steering), put grains gradullary to avoid dough balls. Note that thermometer was should 75C. Need to have better thermometer.
-   (19h30) After 90 minutes mash, fired up the kettle. Depth was 17.6 cm. (note that for the depth I never checked the temperature, since it [expands](https://www.engineeringtoolbox.com/volumetric-temperature-expansion-d_315.html))
-   Preboil gravity: 1.018 (still warm).
-   (20h05) Wort boilling roll started. There was a bit of boil over (kettle lid was on to get hot quickly).
-   (20h50) Put bittering hop
-   (21h50) Flame out, put whirlpool hop and lid. Waited for 10 minutes.
-   (22h00) Started wort chilling.
-   (22h15) Wort at 21C. Took final gravity from trub. Wort in fermenter 10.8L, OG: 1.040. Boiloff rate calculation must be wrong. Need to check. In my calculation I put trub size, but it was zero in previous recipe. Estimation of preboil volume is 15.31, but it's was 15.85 (but might be okay since it needs to be temperature corrected). Need to recheck size with 20C water.
-   (8h) Temp of cooler was 16C. Might be too cold. Fermentation didn't started. Will see tomorrow morning.
